Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency - What Are Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency? | NHLBI, NIH
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
A locked padlock
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
NIH Websites Are Changing
NIH is moving the launch of its new website to the fall to ensure the best possible experience for everyone who relies on our websites for health information, research, funding opportunities, and other resources. Get the Latest Updates and FAQs.
Search Query:
Health Topics
All Health Topics A-Z
Asthma
Heart-Healthy Living
High Blood Pressure
Sickle Cell Disease
Sleep Apnea
Calculate Your BMI
Health Education
Education Programs and Initiatives
The Heart Truth®
Learn More Breathe Better®
Blood Diseases & Disorders Education Program
Publications and Resources
Research
Clinical Trials and Studies
Research Focus Areas
Blood Disorders and Blood Safety
Sleep Science and Sleep Disorders
Lung Diseases
Health Disparities and Inequities
Heart and Vascular Diseases
Precision Medicine Activities
Obesity, Nutrition, and Physical Activity
Population and Epidemiology Studies
Women’s Health
Research Topics
All Science A-Z
Grants and Training
Grants and Training Home
Policies and Guidelines
Funding Opportunities and Contacts
Training and Career Development
News and Events
News and Events Home
Email Alerts
All News
NHLBI News
NHLBI in the Press
Featured Article
Ask a Scientist
All Events
Past Events
Upcoming Events
About NHLBI
About NHLBI Home
Mission and Strategic Vision
Leadership
Divisions, Offices and Centers
Advisory Committees
Budget and Legislative Information
Jobs and Working at the NHLBI
Contact and FAQs
National Institutes of Health Sleep Research Plan
HOME
Search Text:
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
< Back To Home
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
0
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
MENU
< Back To Home
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
What Are Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency?
What Makes You Sleep?
How Sleep Affects Your Health
How Much Sleep Is Enough
Diagnosis
Healthy Sleep Habits
MORE INFORMATION
Participate in a Study
Fact Sheets and Handouts
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency What Are Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency?
Language switcher
English
Español
Sleep deprivation is a condition that occurs if you don't get enough sleep. Sleep deficiency is a broader concept. It occurs if you have one or more of the following:
You don't get enough sleep (sleep deprivation)
You sleep at the wrong time of day
You don't sleep well or get all the different types of sleep your body needs
You have a sleep disorder that prevents you from getting enough sleep or causes poor-quality sleep
This topic focuses on sleep deficiency.
Sleeping is a basic human need, like eating, drinking, and breathing. Like these other needs, sleeping is vital for good health and well-being throughout your lifetime.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about 1 in 3 adults in the United States reported not getting enough rest or sleep every day.
Nearly 40% of adults report falling asleep during the day without meaning to at least once a month. Also, an estimated 50 to 70 million Americans have chronic, or ongoing, sleep disorders.
Sleep deficiency can lead to physical and mental health problems, injuries, loss of productivity, and even a greater likelihood of death. To understand sleep deficiency, it helps to understand what makes you sleep and how it affects your health.
Interested in learning more about the science behind how sleep works, including sleep/wake cycles, and sleep phases & stages? Visit our How Sleep Works section for more information.
Sleep deficiency can interfere with work, school, driving, and social functioning. You might have trouble learning, focusing, and reacting. Also, you might find it hard to judge other people's emotions and reactions. Sleep deficiency also can make you feel frustrated, cranky, or worried in social situations.
The symptoms of sleep deficiency may differ between children and adults. Children who are sleep deficient might be overly active and have problems paying attention. They also might misbehave, and their school performance can suffer.
Sleep deficiency is linked to many chronic health problems, including heart disease, kidney disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, stroke, obesity, and depression.
Sleep deficiency is also linked to a higher chance of injury in adults, teens, and children. For example, sleepiness while driving (not related to alcohol) is responsible for serious car crash injuries and death. In older adults, sleep deficiency may be linked to a higher chance of falls and broken bones.
Sleep deficiency has also played a role in human mistakes linked to tragic accidents, such as nuclear reactor meltdowns, grounding of large ships, and plane crashes.
A common myth is that people can learn to get by on little sleep with no negative effects. However, research shows that getting enough quality sleep at the right times is vital for mental health, physical health, quality of life, and safety.
Book traversal links for Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Next
What Makes You Sleep?
Last updated on March 24, 2022
Back To Top Link
Back to top
Web Policies & Notices
Accessibility
No FEAR Act Data
Privacy Policy
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Related Government Websites
Health and Human Services
National Institutes of Health
Office of the Inspector General
USA.gov
Stay Connected
Live Chat
Live Chat with us, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST.
Get Email Alerts
Receive automatic alerts about NHLBI related news and highlights from across the Institute.
Footer Bottom
Contact Us
Site Index
Jobs