Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency - How Much Sleep Is Enough | NHLBI, NIH
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
A locked padlock
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
NIH Websites Are Changing
NIH is moving the launch of its new website to the fall to ensure the best possible experience for everyone who relies on our websites for health information, research, funding opportunities, and other resources. Get the Latest Updates and FAQs.
Search Query:
Health Topics
All Health Topics A-Z
Asthma
Heart-Healthy Living
High Blood Pressure
Sickle Cell Disease
Sleep Apnea
Calculate Your BMI
Health Education
Education Programs and Initiatives
The Heart Truth®
Learn More Breathe Better®
Blood Diseases & Disorders Education Program
Publications and Resources
Research
Clinical Trials and Studies
Research Focus Areas
Blood Disorders and Blood Safety
Sleep Science and Sleep Disorders
Lung Diseases
Health Disparities and Inequities
Heart and Vascular Diseases
Precision Medicine Activities
Obesity, Nutrition, and Physical Activity
Population and Epidemiology Studies
Women’s Health
Research Topics
All Science A-Z
Grants and Training
Grants and Training Home
Policies and Guidelines
Funding Opportunities and Contacts
Training and Career Development
News and Events
News and Events Home
Email Alerts
All News
NHLBI News
NHLBI in the Press
Featured Article
Ask a Scientist
All Events
Past Events
Upcoming Events
About NHLBI
About NHLBI Home
Mission and Strategic Vision
Leadership
Divisions, Offices and Centers
Advisory Committees
Budget and Legislative Information
Jobs and Working at the NHLBI
Contact and FAQs
National Institutes of Health Sleep Research Plan
HOME
Search Text:
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Home
< Back To Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
How Much Sleep Is Enough
0
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
MENU
Home
< Back To Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
How Much Sleep Is Enough
What Are Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency?
What Makes You Sleep?
How Sleep Affects Your Health
How Much Sleep Is Enough
Diagnosis
Healthy Sleep Habits
MORE INFORMATION
Participate in a Study
Fact Sheets and Handouts
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency How Much Sleep Is Enough
Language switcher
English
Español
The amount of sleep you need each day will change over the course of your life. Although sleep needs vary from person to person, the chart below shows general recommendations for different age groups. This table reflects American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) recommendations that the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) has endorsed.
AgeRecommended Amount of Sleep
Newborns 4 to 12 months12 to 16 hours a day (including naps)
Children 1 to 2 years old11 to 14 hours a day (including naps)
Children 3 to 5 years old10 to 13 hours a day (including naps)
Children 6 to 12 years old9 to 12 hours a day
Teens 13 to 18 years old8 to 10 hours a day
Adults 18 years or older7 to 8 hours a day
If you regularly lose sleep or choose to sleep less than needed, the sleep loss adds up. The total sleep lost is called your sleep debt. For example, if you lose 2 hours of sleep each night, you'll have a sleep debt of 14 hours after a week.
Some people nap to deal with sleepiness. Naps may give a short-term boost in alertness and performance. However, napping doesn't supply all the other benefits of nighttime sleep, so you can't really make up for lost sleep.
Some people sleep more on their days off than on workdays. They also may go to bed and wake up later on days off.
Sleeping more on days off might be a sign that you aren't getting enough sleep. Although extra sleep on days off might help you feel better, it can upset your body's sleep-wake rhythm.
Who is at risk of sleep deprivation and deficiency?
Sleep deficiency, which includes sleep deprivation, affects people of all ages, races, and ethnicities. Certain groups of people may be more likely to be sleep deficient, including people who:
Have limited time for sleep, such as caregivers or people working long hours or more than one job
Have schedules that conflict with their internal body clocks, such as shift workers, first responders, teens who have early school schedules, or people who must travel for work
Make lifestyle choices that prevent them from getting enough sleep, such as taking medicine to stay awake, misusing alcohol or drugs, or not leaving enough time for sleep
Have undiagnosed or untreated medical problems, such as stress, anxiety, or sleep disorders
Have medical conditions or take medicines that interfere with sleep
If your job or daily routine limits your ability to get enough sleep or sleep at the right times, talk with your doctor. You also should talk with your doctor if you sleep more than 8 hours a night, but don't feel well rested. You may have a sleep disorder or other health problem.
Book traversal links for Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Previous
How Sleep Affects Your Health
Next
Diagnosis
Last updated on March 24, 2022
Back To Top Link
Back to top
Web Policies & Notices
Accessibility
No FEAR Act Data
Privacy Policy
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Related Government Websites
Health and Human Services
National Institutes of Health
Office of the Inspector General
USA.gov
Stay Connected
Live Chat
Live Chat with us, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST.
Get Email Alerts
Receive automatic alerts about NHLBI related news and highlights from across the Institute.
Footer Bottom
Contact Us
Site Index
Jobs