Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency - How Sleep Affects Your Health | NHLBI, NIH
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
A locked padlock
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
NIH Websites Are Changing
NIH is moving the launch of its new website to the fall to ensure the best possible experience for everyone who relies on our websites for health information, research, funding opportunities, and other resources. Get the Latest Updates and FAQs.
Search Query:
Health Topics
All Health Topics A-Z
Asthma
Heart-Healthy Living
High Blood Pressure
Sickle Cell Disease
Sleep Apnea
Calculate Your BMI
Health Education
Education Programs and Initiatives
The Heart Truth®
Learn More Breathe Better®
Blood Diseases & Disorders Education Program
Publications and Resources
Research
Clinical Trials and Studies
Research Focus Areas
Blood Disorders and Blood Safety
Sleep Science and Sleep Disorders
Lung Diseases
Health Disparities and Inequities
Heart and Vascular Diseases
Precision Medicine Activities
Obesity, Nutrition, and Physical Activity
Population and Epidemiology Studies
Women’s Health
Research Topics
All Science A-Z
Grants and Training
Grants and Training Home
Policies and Guidelines
Funding Opportunities and Contacts
Training and Career Development
News and Events
News and Events Home
Email Alerts
All News
NHLBI News
NHLBI in the Press
Featured Article
Ask a Scientist
All Events
Past Events
Upcoming Events
About NHLBI
About NHLBI Home
Mission and Strategic Vision
Leadership
Divisions, Offices and Centers
Advisory Committees
Budget and Legislative Information
Jobs and Working at the NHLBI
Contact and FAQs
National Institutes of Health Sleep Research Plan
HOME
Search Text:
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Home
< Back To Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
How Sleep Affects Your Health
0
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
MENU
Home
< Back To Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
How Sleep Affects Your Health
What Are Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency?
What Makes You Sleep?
How Sleep Affects Your Health
How Much Sleep Is Enough
Diagnosis
Healthy Sleep Habits
MORE INFORMATION
Participate in a Study
Fact Sheets and Handouts
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency How Sleep Affects Your Health
Language switcher
English
Español
IN THIS ARTICLE
Getting enough quality sleep at the right times can help protect your mental health, physical health, quality of life, and safety.
How do I know if I’m not getting enough sleep?
Sleep deficiency can cause you to feel very tired during the day. You may not feel refreshed and alert when you wake up. Sleep deficiency also can interfere with work, school, driving, and social functioning.
How sleepy you feel during the day can help you figure out whether you're having symptoms of problem sleepiness.
You might be sleep deficient if you often feel like you could doze off while:
Sitting and reading or watching TV
Sitting still in a public place, such as a movie theater, meeting, or classroom
Riding in a car for an hour without stopping
Sitting and talking to someone
Sitting quietly after lunch
Sitting in traffic for a few minutes
Sleep deficiency can cause problems with learning, focusing, and reacting. You may have trouble making decisions, solving problems, remembering things, managing your emotions and behavior, and coping with change. You may take longer to finish tasks, have a slower reaction time, and make more mistakes.
Symptoms in children
The symptoms of sleep deficiency may differ between children and adults. Children who are sleep deficient might be overly active and have problems paying attention. They also might misbehave, and their school performance can suffer.
Sleep-deficient children may feel angry and impulsive, have mood swings, feel sad or depressed, or lack motivation.
Sleep and your health
The way you feel while you're awake depends in part on what happens while you're sleeping. During sleep, your body is working to support healthy brain function and support your physical health. In children and teens, sleep also helps support growth and development.
The damage from sleep deficiency can happen in an instant (such as a car crash), or it can harm you over time. For example, ongoing sleep deficiency can raise your risk of some chronic health problems. It also can affect how well you think, react, work, learn, and get along with others.
Mental health benefits
Sleep helps your brain work properly. While you're sleeping, your brain is getting ready for the next day. It's forming new pathways to help you learn and remember information.
Studies show that a good night's sleep improves learning and problem-solving skills. Sleep also helps you pay attention, make decisions, and be creative.
Studies also show that sleep deficiency changes activity in some parts of the brain. If you're sleep deficient, you may have trouble making decisions, solving problems, controlling your emotions and behavior, and coping with change. Sleep deficiency has also been linked to depression, suicide, and risk-taking behavior.
Children and teens who are sleep deficient may have problems getting along with others. They may feel angry and impulsive, have mood swings, feel sad or depressed, or lack motivation. They also may have problems paying attention, and they may get lower grades and feel stressed.
Physical health benefits
Sleep plays an important role in your physical health.
Good-quality sleep:
Heals and repairs your heart and blood vessels.
Helps support a healthy balance of the hormones that make you feel hungry (ghrelin) or full (leptin): When you don't get enough sleep, your level of ghrelin goes up and your level of leptin goes down. This makes you feel hungrier than when you're well-rested.
Affects how your body reacts to insulin: Insulin is the hormone that controls your blood glucose (sugar) level. Sleep deficiency results in a higher-than-normal blood sugar level, which may raise your risk of diabetes.
Supports healthy growth and development: Deep sleep triggers the body to release the hormone that promotes normal growth in children and teens. This hormone also boosts muscle mass and helps repair cells and tissues in children, teens, and adults. Sleep also plays a role in puberty and fertility.
Affects your body’s ability to fight germs and sickness: Ongoing sleep deficiency can change the way your body’s natural defense against germs and sickness responds. For example, if you're sleep deficient, you may have trouble fighting common infections.
Decreases your risk of health problems, including heart disease, high blood pressure, obesity, and stroke.
Research for Your Health
NHLBI-funded research found that adults who regularly get 7-8 hours of sleep a night have a lower risk of obesity and high blood pressure. Other NHLBI-funded research found that untreated sleep disorders rase the risk for heart problems and problems during pregnancy, including high blood pressure and diabetes.
Read more about NHLBI’s role in sleep science and sleep disorders research.
Daytime performance and safety
Getting enough quality sleep at the right times helps you function well throughout the day. People who are sleep deficient are less productive at work and school. They take longer to finish tasks, have a slower reaction time, and make more mistakes.
After several nights of losing sleep — even a loss of just 1 to 2 hours per night — your ability to function suffers as if you haven't slept at all for a day or two.
Lack of sleep also may lead to microsleep. Microsleep refers to brief moments of sleep that happen when you're normally awake.
You can't control microsleep, and you might not be aware of it. For example, have you ever driven somewhere and then not remembered part of the trip? If so, you may have experienced microsleep.
Even if you're not driving, microsleep can affect how you function. If you're listening to a lecture, for example, you might miss some of the information or feel like you don't understand the point. You may have slept through part of the lecture and not realized it.
Some people aren't aware of the risks of sleep deficiency. In fact, they may not even realize that they're sleep deficient. Even with limited or poor-quality sleep, they may still think they can function well.
For example, sleepy drivers may feel able to drive. Yet studies show that sleep deficiency harms your driving ability as much or more than being drunk. It's estimated that driver sleepiness is a factor in about 100,000 car accidents each year, resulting in about 1,500 deaths.
Drivers aren't the only ones affected by sleep deficiency. It can affect people in all lines of work, including healthcare workers, pilots, students, lawyers, mechanics, and assembly line workers.
FACT SHEET
Sleep Fact Sheet
Learn some sleep terms and find out about treatments that can help with sleep apnea.
View the fact sheet
Book traversal links for Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Previous
What Makes You Sleep?
Next
How Much Sleep Is Enough
Last updated on June 15, 2022
Back To Top Link
Back to top
Web Policies & Notices
Accessibility
No FEAR Act Data
Privacy Policy
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Related Government Websites
Health and Human Services
National Institutes of Health
Office of the Inspector General
USA.gov
Stay Connected
Live Chat
Live Chat with us, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST.
Get Email Alerts
Receive automatic alerts about NHLBI related news and highlights from across the Institute.
Footer Bottom
Contact Us
Site Index
Jobs