Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency - Healthy Sleep Habits | NHLBI, NIH
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
A locked padlock
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
NIH Websites Are Changing
NIH is moving the launch of its new website to the fall to ensure the best possible experience for everyone who relies on our websites for health information, research, funding opportunities, and other resources. Get the Latest Updates and FAQs.
Search Query:
Health Topics
All Health Topics A-Z
Asthma
Heart-Healthy Living
High Blood Pressure
Sickle Cell Disease
Sleep Apnea
Calculate Your BMI
Health Education
Education Programs and Initiatives
The Heart Truth®
Learn More Breathe Better®
Blood Diseases & Disorders Education Program
Publications and Resources
Research
Clinical Trials and Studies
Research Focus Areas
Blood Disorders and Blood Safety
Sleep Science and Sleep Disorders
Lung Diseases
Health Disparities and Inequities
Heart and Vascular Diseases
Precision Medicine Activities
Obesity, Nutrition, and Physical Activity
Population and Epidemiology Studies
Women’s Health
Research Topics
All Science A-Z
Grants and Training
Grants and Training Home
Policies and Guidelines
Funding Opportunities and Contacts
Training and Career Development
News and Events
News and Events Home
Email Alerts
All News
NHLBI News
NHLBI in the Press
Featured Article
Ask a Scientist
All Events
Past Events
Upcoming Events
About NHLBI
About NHLBI Home
Mission and Strategic Vision
Leadership
Divisions, Offices and Centers
Advisory Committees
Budget and Legislative Information
Jobs and Working at the NHLBI
Contact and FAQs
National Institutes of Health Sleep Research Plan
HOME
Search Text:
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Home
< Back To Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Healthy Sleep Habits
0
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
MENU
Home
< Back To Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Healthy Sleep Habits
What Are Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency?
What Makes You Sleep?
How Sleep Affects Your Health
How Much Sleep Is Enough
Diagnosis
Healthy Sleep Habits
MORE INFORMATION
Participate in a Study
Fact Sheets and Handouts
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency Healthy Sleep Habits
Language switcher
English
Español
You can take steps to improve your sleep habits. First, make sure that you give yourself enough time to sleep. With enough sleep each night, you may find that you're happier and more productive during the day.
Sleep is often the first thing that busy people squeeze out of their schedules. Making time to sleep will help you protect your health and well-being now and in the future.
To improve your sleep habits, it also may help to:
Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day. For children, have a set bedtime and a bedtime routine. Don't use the child's bedroom for timeouts or punishment.
Try to keep the same sleep schedule on weeknights and weekends. Limit the difference to no more than about an hour. Staying up late and sleeping in late on weekends can disrupt your body clock's sleep-wake rhythm.
Use the hour before bed for quiet time. Avoid intense exercise and bright artificial light, such as from a TV or computer screen. The light may signal the brain that it's time to be awake.
Avoid heavy or large meals within a few hours of bedtime. (Having a light snack is okay.) Also, avoid alcoholic drinks before bed.
Avoid nicotine (for example, cigarettes) and caffeine (including caffeinated soda, coffee, tea, and chocolate). Nicotine and caffeine are stimulants, and both substances can interfere with sleep. The effects of caffeine can last up to 8 hours. So, a cup of coffee in the late afternoon can make it hard for you to fall asleep at night.
Spend time outside every day (when possible) and be physically active.
Keep your bedroom quiet, cool, and dark (a dim night light is fine, if needed).
Take a hot bath or use relaxation techniques before bed.
Napping during the day may boost your alertness and performance. However, if you have trouble falling asleep at night, limit naps or take them earlier in the afternoon. Adults should nap for no more than 20 minutes.
Napping in preschool-age children is normal and promotes healthy growth and development.
Strategies for shift workers
Some people have schedules that conflict with their internal body clocks. For example, shift workers may have trouble getting enough sleep. This can affect how they feel mentally and physically.
If you're a shift worker, you may find it helpful to:
Take naps and raise the amount of time available for sleep
Keep the lights bright at work
Limit shift changes so your body clock can adjust
Limit caffeine use to the first part of your shift
Remove sound and light distractions in your bedroom during daytime sleep (for example, use light-blocking curtains)
If you're still not able to fall asleep during the day or have problems adapting to a shift-work schedule, talk with your doctor about other options to help you sleep.
Book traversal links for Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency
Previous
Diagnosis
Last updated on March 24, 2022
Back To Top Link
Back to top
Web Policies & Notices
Accessibility
No FEAR Act Data
Privacy Policy
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Related Government Websites
Health and Human Services
National Institutes of Health
Office of the Inspector General
USA.gov
Stay Connected
Live Chat
Live Chat with us, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST.
Get Email Alerts
Receive automatic alerts about NHLBI related news and highlights from across the Institute.
Footer Bottom
Contact Us
Site Index
Jobs