
Insomnia
- NHS
Skip to main content
NHS
Search the NHS website
Search
Health A to Z
NHS services
Healthy living
Mental health
Care and support
Browse
More
Home
Health A to Z
Conditions A to Z
Back to
Conditions A to Z
Back
Insomnia
Insomnia means you regularly have problems sleeping. It usually gets better by changing your sleeping habits.
Symptoms of insomnia
You have insomnia if you regularly:
find it hard to go to sleep
wake up several times during the night
lie awake at night
wake up early and cannot go back to sleep
still feel tired after waking up
find it hard to nap during the day even though you're tired
feel tired and irritable during the day
find it difficult to concentrate during the day because you're tired
If you have insomnia for a short time (less than 3 months) it's called short-term insomnia. Insomnia that lasts 3 months or longer is called long-term insomnia.
How much sleep you need
Everyone needs different amounts of sleep.
On average:
adults need 7 to 9 hours
children need 9 to 13 hours
toddlers and babies need 12 to 17 hours
You probably do not get enough sleep if you're constantly tired during the day.
What causes insomnia
The most common causes of insomnia are:
stress, anxiety or depression
noise
a room that's too hot or cold
uncomfortable beds
alcohol, caffeine or nicotine
illegal drugs like cocaine or ecstasy
jet lag
shift work
Conditions and other things that can cause insomnia
Conditions and medicines that can cause insomnia:
mental health conditions, such as schizophrenia or bipolar disorder
Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease
restless legs syndrome
overactive thyroid
menopause
Many medicines can also cause insomnia.
Things that keep you from getting a good night's sleep:
long-term pain
sleepwalking
snoring or interrupted breathing while sleeping (sleep apnoea)
suddenly falling asleep anywhere (narcolepsy)
nightmares or night terrors (particularly in children)
How you can treat insomnia yourself
Insomnia usually gets better by changing your sleeping habits.
Do
only go to bed when you're sleepy
wake up and get out of bed at the same time every day
relax at least 1 hour before bed – for example, take a bath or read a book
make sure your bedroom is dark and quiet – use curtains, blinds, an eye mask or ear plugs if needed
exercise regularly during the day
make sure your mattress, pillows and covers are comfortable
Don’t
do not smoke or drink alcohol, tea or coffee at least 6 hours before going to bed
do not eat a big meal late at night
do not exercise at least 4 hours before bed
do not watch television or use devices, like smartphones, right before going to bed, because the blue light makes you more awake
do not nap during the day
do not drive when you feel sleepy
do not sleep in after a bad night's sleep – stick to your regular sleeping hours instead
How a pharmacist can help with insomnia
You can buy tablets or liquids (sometimes called sleeping aids) from a pharmacy that may help you sleep better.
Some contain natural ingredients such as valerian or lavender, while others contain an antihistamine.
They cannot cure insomnia but may help you sleep better for 1 to 2 weeks. They should not be taken for any longer.
Some of these products can have side effects, for instance, they may make you drowsy. This could make it difficult for you to do certain things like drive.
Check with your doctor before taking anything for your sleep problems.
Non-urgent advice: See a GP if:
changing your sleeping habits has not helped your insomnia
you've had trouble sleeping for months
your insomnia is affecting your daily life in a way that makes it hard for you to cope
Treatment from a GP for insomnia
A GP will try to find out what's causing your insomnia so you get the right treatment.
Sometimes you'll be offered cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). This may be face-to-face with a therapist, or through an online self-help programme.
This can help you change the thoughts and behaviours that keep you from sleeping.
You may be referred to a sleep clinic if you have symptoms of another sleep disorder such as sleep apnoea.
GPs now rarely prescribe sleeping pills to treat insomnia. Sleeping pills can have serious side effects and you can become dependent on them.
Sleeping pills are only prescribed for a few days, or weeks at the most, if:
your insomnia is very bad
other treatments have not worked
Page last reviewed: 19 March 2024
Next review due: 19 March 2027
Support links
Home
Health A to Z
NHS services
Healthy living
Mental health
Care and support
NHS App
View your test results
About the NHS
Healthcare abroad
Manage NHS profiles
Other NHS websites
About us
Report an issue with the NHS website
Accessibility statement
Our policies
Cookies
© Crown copyright