
Benefits of exercise - NHS
Skip to main content
NHS
Search the NHS website
Search
Health A to Z
NHS services
Healthy living
Mental health
Care and support
Browse
More
Home
Healthy living
Exercise
Back to
Exercise
Back
Benefits of exercise
Whatever your age, there's strong scientific evidence that being physically active can help you lead a healthier and happier life.
Exercise can reduce your risk of major illnesses, such as coronary heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes and cancer, and lower your risk of early death by up to 30%.
Check physical activity guidelines for:
children (under 5 years)
children and young people (5 to 18 years)
adults (19 to 64 years)
older adults (65 years and over)
Health benefits
It's essential to be physically active if you want to live a healthy and fulfilling life into old age.
People who do regular physical activity have a lower risk of:
coronary heart disease and stroke
type 2 diabetes
bowel cancer
breast cancer in women
early death
osteoarthritis
hip fracture
falls (among older adults)
depression
dementia, including Alzheimer's disease
Research also shows that physical activity can boost self-esteem, mood, sleep quality and energy, as well as reducing your risk of stress.
What counts?
To stay healthy, the UK Chief Medical Officers' Physical Activity Guidelines, on GOV.UK, state that adults should try to be active every day and aim to do at least 150 minutes of physical activity over a week, through a variety of activities.
For most people, the easiest way to get moving is to make activity part of everyday life, like walking for health or cycling instead of using the car to get around. However, the more you do, the better, and taking part in activities such as sports and exercise will make you even healthier.
For any type of activity to benefit your health, you need to be moving quick enough to raise your heart rate, breathe faster and feel warmer. This level of effort is called moderate intensity activity. If you're working at a moderate intensity you should still be able to talk but you won't be able to sing the words to a song.
An activity where you have to work even harder is called vigorous intensity activity. There is substantial evidence that vigorous activity can bring health benefits over and above that of moderate activity.
You can tell when it's vigorous activity because you're breathing hard and fast, and your heart rate has gone up quite a bit. If you're working at this level, you won't be able to say more than a few words without pausing for a breath.
Video: Keep healthy with 150 minutes of exercise a week
In this video people describe what exercise they do, including cycling, running and swimming.
Media last reviewed: 3 August 2024
Media review due: 3 August 2027
A modern problem
People are less active nowadays, partly because technology has made our lives easier. We drive cars or take public transport. Machines wash our clothes. We entertain ourselves in front of a TV or computer screen. Fewer people are doing manual work, and most of us have jobs that involve little physical effort. Work, household chores, shopping and other necessary activities are far less demanding than for previous generations.
We move around less and burn off less energy than people used to. Research suggests that many adults spend more than 7 hours a day sitting down, at work, on transport or in their leisure time. People aged over 65 spend 10 hours or more each day sitting or lying down, making them the most sedentary age group.
Sedentary lifestyles
Inactivity is described by the Department of Health and Social Care as a "silent killer". Evidence is emerging that sedentary behaviour, such as sitting or lying down for long periods, is bad for your health.
Not only should you try to raise your activity levels, but you should also reduce the amount of time you and your family spend sitting down.
Common examples of sedentary behaviour include watching TV, using a computer, using the car for short journeys and sitting down to read, talk or listen to music. This type of behaviour is thought to increase your risk of developing many long-term conditions, such as heart disease, stroke and type 2 diabetes, as well as weight gain and obesity.
Crucially, you can hit your weekly activity target but still be at risk of ill health if you spend the rest of the time sitting or lying down.
For a summary on the health benefits of being more active, see the physical activity guidelines from the Department of Health and Social Care.
More in
Exercise
Why exercise is important
Benefits of exercise
Why we should sit less
Exercise guidelines
Physical activity guidelines for adults aged 19 to 64
Physical activity guidelines for older adults
Physical activity guidelines for children and young people
Physical activity guidelines for children (under 5 years)
Fitness advice for wheelchair users
Strength and flexibility exercises
How to improve your strength and flexibility
Strength and Flex exercise plan: How-to videos
Balance exercises
Sitting exercises
Strength exercises
Flexibility exercises
Exercises for sciatica problems
Running and aerobic exercises
How to warm up before exercising
How to stretch after exercising
Knee exercises for runners
Knee pain and other running injuries
Walking for health
Fitness studio exercise videos
About our Fitness studio videos
Aerobic exercise videos
Strength and resistance exercise videos
Pilates and yoga exercise videos
Page last reviewed: 15 August 2024
Next review due: 15 August 2027
Support links
Home
Health A to Z
NHS services
Healthy living
Mental health
Care and support
NHS App
View your test results
About the NHS
Healthcare abroad
Manage NHS profiles
Other NHS websites
About us
Report an issue with the NHS website
Accessibility statement
Our policies
Cookies
© Crown copyright