Stand up for yourself | CVD
CVD
Know Diabetes
My Account
Search
Menu
Home
Know More
Hypertension
Cholesterol and triglycerides
Conditions
Atrial fibrillation
Cardiac rehabilitation
Be Healthier
Nutrition hub
Lose weight
Move more
Drink less
Quit smoking
Emotional wellbeing
Sleep better
Healthy lifestyle
Learning Zone
Find a programme
Apps
Online courses
Free downloads
Podcasts
Watch
Digital inclusion
Sound Doctor Films
Sound Doctor Courses
Open online courses
Get Involved
Health tools
Languages
Our Communities
Share your story
Local services
Social Media
About Us
Meet the Team
Contact Us
Healthcare professionals
Login/Register
Logout
MyHealth London
Be healthier
Move more
Stand up for yourself
Stand up for yourself
The Department of Health describes inactivity as a silent killer, now a bigger risk factor for heart disease than smoking, so find out how moving more can help.
Our lifestyle has changed over the years and now many of us sit while at work and home. This inactivity, also known as sedentary behaviour, means we’re not moving enough.
Inactivity is now the fourth leading risk factor for death worldwide.
The impact of sitting down too long
Scientists first noticed something was up in a study that compared the health of transit drivers who sat most of the day and conductors who mostly stood. Though the diets and lifestyles of both groups were a lot alike, the drivers were about twice as likely to get heart disease than the conductors.
Sitting down too long is likely to increase your risk of developing many chronic diseases such as heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes – and lead to weight gain and obesity.
Top ‘sit less’ tips
Take regular breaks from screens at home or at work
If you’re home watching television, get up at every ad break, or get on your exercise bike or hit the floor. You can keep moving even during your favourite programme.
Stand instead of sitting when you travel
Try standing for at least short periods on your journey or get off the bus a few stops early and walk.
Stand up at work
Go over to talk to colleagues rather than sending them an email, or go to a different floor to make coffee or use a toilet.
Ask for a standing desk or have a standing or walking meeting.
Plan in some active time when you are often sitting
Find a local activity or go for a walk after breakfast, lunch or dinner. If you’re at home, cook a healthy meal from scratch or watch your favourite TV programme while moving around.
Set time limits on sitting down
Limit television to an hour in the evening or have a one-hour technology break each evening and do something more active. If you have a family, it’s great for everyone to follow this rule.
Related information
Exercise safely with CVD
Stand up for yourself
Ability not disability
Walk this Way
Free gym for you
Get fit at home
Run, jog, walk
Make it happen
I want to ride my bicycle
Taking the stairs
Strength and flex workouts
Related information
We are undefeatable videos
Get moving with walking football coach Stuart Langworthy - English
Get dancing with dance teacher Katie Mason - English
Meg's story | We Are Undefeatable - English
Darren's story | We Are Undefeatable - English
Mahesh's story | We Are Undefeatable - English
Zahoor's story | We Are Undefeatable - English
Healthcare professionals
About us
Privacy policy
Terms & Conditions
Accessibility
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Glossary of terms
© 2026 MyWay Digital Health